A new way to success?-Critical Review of “The Sweet Spot”


With the development of the society, the importance of self-skills has been realized to adopt the innovation. People began to find some effective ways to improve themselves. Journalist Daniel Coyle give us a new method in his essay “The Sweet Spot”. In his essay, based on interviews with who are successful in their field across a wide spectrum of society, Coyle argues that people who are not born talent can reach the destination they desired through the right way of deep practice. There is a clear structure to verify his arguments in this essay.

In the first place, Coyle used three questions to attract the readers’ attention. He travelled to a lot of small places to find the so-called “Chicken- wire Harvard”-”tiny places that produce Everest-size amounts of talent” (Coyle, 11). As a new reader, I was very curious about these places and wondered why these places can be a hotbed of great persons. The author also asked this question. Naturally, he transferred his topic to his feelings of his travel. He felt dazzled by the talent, also, half of the time, he witnessed some “moments of slow, fitful struggle” (Coyle, 12). He used a simile to explain this kind of scenario:” It was as if the herd of deer suddenly encountered a hillside coated with ice” (Coyle, 12).Then he asked the second question: Why these struggle made them better? In order to narrow down this murky question, Coyle used Brazilian soccer player and asked the third question, how does Brazil produce so many great players?(Coyle, 15) In this part, he discussed his view of way to success: deep practice.

In the second place, Coyle began to summarize his thinking of deep practice. He has come up with a way to try deep practice which is to find the sweet spot. Set up the best goals, make valuable mistakes, then you may reach the destination you desired.

Finally, Coyle gives us two fields of the utilization of deep practice, one is the training of dangerous job, and the other is ordinary skill learning. He used two examples to show us how important it is to do deep practice in different fields. In his essay, the two sections, “Edwin Link’s Unusual Device” (Coyle, 20) and “Brazil’s Secret Weapon” (Coyle, 24), are talking about the utilization of the different kinds of fields.

A good essay fits understanding logic and makes structure clear. Another advantage of this essay is the citing of evidences. They are effective to explain what the author want to tell.

On one hand, he used quotation to illustrate the concept of deep practice. Coyle quotes what Robert Bjork said to support his view of effort:” One real encounter, even for a few seconds, is far more useful than several hundred observations.”(Coyle, 18) On the other hand, he described the real persons work and daily life scenario to help readers understand what he wanted to say. The soccer player in Brazil and the musician in Dallas (Coyle, 13) are normal persons who seem can be understood more easily by readers. Remember the name we get in a party (Coyle, 17), learn to use the life vest (Coyle, 17), they are both daily life scenario. Readers may feel more familiar than boring concept.

In his study, people who has no talent can practice in a right way to get succeed. There are some problem however, with Coyle’s argument. One of these concerns is that while it may appear that people become experts in one field by deep practice, it still a factual description. Coyle quotes many stories from his interviews in “chicken-wire Harvards” to illustrate his basic argument. The stories are not organized, designed and implemented in a unified manner, based on adequate scientific augmentation. So it is undefined that if the way of practice is effective to everyone. One has the impression that Coyle only illustrated that deep practice is useful in some specific field, such as music and sports. We cannot ignore the different demands in diverse fields.

However, we can learn some useful opinion to success. For instance, we could figure out our passion, set reasonable goals and don’t be afraid of making mistakes. Coyle’s essay is also a good example for us to learn how to integrate evidences in an article. When we write essays, it is effective to cite many evidences by build a clear path of article. In summary, while Coyle’s essay is not an scientific investigation report in the way of success, it does offer a new method of practice to get a new skill, and may useful in some fields of our daily life.
